# Portfolio

For my portfolio, I want to look at my own taste in music, and how this has developed over the past 10 years. Ever since the end of 2009, my listening habits have been tracked by last.fm, an application that registers every song ('a scrobble') you listen to on certain platforms, such as Spotify. Even though last.fm can't track the music one listens to from for example YouTube, I still think that their records on my music listening habits will be representative, as most music I have listened to has been 'scrobbled' by Last.fm, in the early 2010s on iTunes, and later on Spotify. 

The plan for my corpus is as follows:
I want to select the most listened to song from my top 25-most listened to artists, for the years 2010, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2018, and 2020.

I'm specifically interested in differences in genre. I differentiate many musical 'phases' throughout my life, and I would like to see if the data could show me the same. For instance, when I was young, I had a large interest in what one would describe as emo and post-hardcore music. Over the years that has subsided and, in my perception, has been replaced by a large interest in indie pop and folk. I do have a hard time describing what kind of music I have listened to in recent years, so hopefully this project can help me out! The main features that would distinguish my 'musical phases' would be loudness, acousticness, and energy. One thing I'm interested in in particular, is my listening habits in 2020. Because of the pandemic, I feel like I really went back to my old listening habits from around 2010/2012. I'm wondering if this can be seen in the data.
A very typical song for me would be 'Wide Eyes' by Local Natives. For me, it encompasses everything a good song should be in terms of melody, harmony, instrumentation. I first heard it in 2010 and not surprisingly, it has become my most listened to song ever (186 'scrobbles' on Last.fm)

One point of doubt is whether selecting 25 songs per year can really grasp my musical taste for that year. This is something I'm not sure of. I feel like when I was younger, I listened to a small number of artists a lot, compared to now, when I listen to, I think, more artists, but to each artist less. 
